Joy and pleasure help us revert from stressful situations
When you're in a tough situation, you can return to the moments of joy within your mind
While you feel joyful, you're more creative and you become inspired more easily from new things
Shared joy increases well-being around you
While we are sad our body guides us to rest and give more space for the sorrow
Everybody griefs in their own way. One needs company and presence, while another one needs to be alone.
You can mourn in any way you see fit, however you don't need to be left alone with the grief and usually talking about things will help.
Anger might give you perseverance to do things.
A good way to release anger is to talk about it to someone.
Everyone has their own way of dismantling their anger. Apart from talking we can unload it by physical or creative means: by running, cleaning, painting or for example listening to music.
Having compassion towards yourself might help you to deal with shame
Shame is sometimes called a social emotion. It can be a healthy way to learn how one should act in different situations.
The feeling of shame is in many ways difficult and hard to cope with. Often it might get unreasonable and distorted traits. Even though it may feel difficult, talking about shame and about what's causing it usually helps.
The feeling of guilt usually eases when one is honest with themselves. If you deny it from yourself, the feeling of guilt will keep growing.
The feeling of guilt can be eased by correcting one's own actions and by striving to compensate for the displeasure caused to others.
The feeling of fear wakes us to observe our surroundings and to stop and estimate whether the fear was woken up by an actual danger or not.
Fear may be a sign of yearning for safety. Everyone has their own things that make them feel safe. For example the company of others, warmth, touch or music.
Sometimes our fears are not concrete (like fear of spiders, fear of the dark or fear of heights). We might instead fear being made fun of or being insufficient. Sometimes the fear of not being accepted as we are might affect our actions in friend groups, home or in social media.